README.md, before:

# PhotoCloud Monorepo

PhotoCloud is a SaaS for photographers to create secure private galleries with client selection and final delivery. This monorepo contains infrastructure (AWS CDK), backend Lambdas, and frontend apps (dashboard, client gallery).

## Tech Stack
- Infra: AWS CDK v2 (TypeScript), API Gateway (HTTP API), Lambda (Node.js 20), S3, DynamoDB, Cognito
- Frontend: Next.js (dashboard, gallery)
- Logging: JSON logs via shared logger; CloudWatch logs/metrics

## Repository Layout
- `infra/` – CDK app (stacks, resources, routing)
- `backend/functions/` – Lambda handlers (payments, galleries, uploads, downloads, etc.)
- `backend/lib/` – Shared backend utilities (auth, JWT, DynamoDB, email)
- `frontend/dashboard/` – Photographer admin dashboard (Next.js)
- `frontend/gallery/` – Client gallery (Next.js)
- `packages/config/` – Shared types/config
- `packages/logger/` – Shared logger + lambda wrapper
- `packages/gallery-components/` – Shared React components for gallery views
- `scripts/smoke.mjs` – Simple synthetic health check

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 20+, Yarn Classic (1.x)
- AWS credentials configured (for deploys)

## Install
```bash
yarn install
```

## Infrastructure
Build/synth/deploy the CDK app:
```bash
cd infra
yarn build
yarn synth            # optional: preview CloudFormation
yarn deploy           # deploys the stack (uses AWS creds)
```

Context/stage:
- Default stage: `dev` (read from `--context stage=...` or `STAGE` env)

Outputs:
- Bucket name, Cognito UserPool, UserPool ClientId, and API URL are printed after deploy.

## Full AWS Setup & Deployment

### 1) AWS Account & CLI
- Install AWS CLI and configure credentials:
  ```bash
  aws configure
  # Provide Access key ID, Secret access key, region (e.g., eu-central-1), output format
  ```
- Ensure your IAM user/role has permissions to manage: CloudFormation, S3, DynamoDB, Cognito, Lambda, API Gateway, CloudWatch, IAM (for roles created by CDK).

### 2) Install Dependencies
```bash
yarn install
```

### 3) CDK Bootstrap (first time per account/region)
CDK v2 typically auto-bootstraps via deploy, but if needed:
```bash
cd infra
npx cdk bootstrap aws://<ACCOUNT_ID>/<REGION>
```

### 4) Select Stage and Region
- Default stage is `dev`. You can override with:
  - CLI context: `yarn deploy --context stage=prod`
  - Environment: `STAGE=prod yarn deploy`
- Region is taken from your AWS credentials environment (or `CDK_DEFAULT_REGION`).

### 5) Deploy
```bash
cd infra
yarn build
yarn deploy
```
- CDK will show a change set; approve to deploy.
- On success, note the outputs:
  - `BucketName`
  - `UserPoolId`
  - `UserPoolClientId`
  - `HttpApiUrl`

### 6) Verify API Is Live
- Health endpoint:
  ```bash
  API_URL=<HttpApiUrl_from_outputs>
  curl -i "$API_URL/health"
  ```
- Or use the smoke script:
  ```bash
  API_URL=$API_URL yarn smoke
  ```

### 7) Cognito Authentication (Photographer Admin)
- Create a test user in the user pool (AWS Console > Cognito > User pools > Create user).
- Alternatively via AWS CLI:
  ```bash
  # Sign-up flow if self-sign-up enabled; otherwise admin create via console is simpler for MVP
  ```
- The API routes for payments/galleries/uploads are protected by the Cognito authorizer. Use the dashboard app to authenticate and call these routes (future step: Hosted UI/JWT flow).

### 8) Frontend Configuration & Run
- Dashboard:
  ```bash
  cd frontend/dashboard
  NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=$API_URL yarn dev
  ```
  - Open http://localhost:3000 and run the API Health Check.
- Client Gallery:
  ```bash
  cd frontend/gallery
  yarn dev
  ```

### 9) Creating a Gallery (MVP Flow)
- For now, handlers are stubbed for payments; galleries can be created once auth flows are integrated.
- After auth integration, the dashboard will call `POST /galleries` (protected) to create an entry in DynamoDB and folder in S3.

### 10) Logs & Monitoring
- CloudWatch Logs: each Lambda has a log group under `/aws/lambda/...`.
- Check errors and invocations:
  - CloudWatch > Logs > Log groups
  - CloudWatch > Metrics (Lambda/API Gateway)

### 11) Teardown
To remove the stack:
```bash
cd infra
yarn deploy # ensure you’re deploying to the correct stage
npx cdk destroy
```
Note: Buckets with retained data may block deletion; empty S3 buckets or switch removal policy to DESTROY for development if needed.

### 12) Troubleshooting
- Missing alpha package versions: we pin CDK alpha packages with a caret range; run `yarn install` again if resolution fails.
- TypeScript path issues in Lambdas: repo uses relative imports inside Lambda handlers to avoid editor tooling issues.
- 403 on API calls: ensure you supply valid Cognito JWT when calling protected routes; health and webhook are public.
- Region mismatch: verify `aws configure get region` matches your intended region.

## Smoke Test
After deploy, run a basic health check:
```bash
API_URL=https://xxxxx.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com yarn smoke
```

## Frontend Apps
Dashboard (set API URL to enable health check UI):
```bash
cd frontend/dashboard
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://xxxxx.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com yarn dev
```

Client Gallery:
```bash
cd frontend/gallery
yarn dev
```

## Development Notes
- API security: Cognito authorizer protects admin routes; health and webhook are public.
- Lambdas currently include stub handlers for quick end-to-end verification.
- Add real logic incrementally (payments, wallet, gallery CRUD, presign, zip, selections).

### Access Control Model (important)
- **Photographers (Cognito-authenticated)**: May access only their own galleries:
  - Protected endpoints verify `ownerId === sub` and return 403 if not.
  - `ownerId` is set on gallery creation from Cognito JWT `sub`.
  - Can view galleries in "owner mode" (read-only, can delete photos).
- **Clients (password-based JWT)**: May access only the specific gallery they were invited to:
  - Client JWT tokens are scoped to a specific `galleryId` and `clientId`.
  - Can select photos, approve selections, and download final photos.
  - Token stored in localStorage for session persistence.

**Unified Authentication**: The `verifyGalleryAccess` helper supports both authentication methods:
- Checks Cognito tokens (from API Gateway authorizer or Authorization header)
- Checks client JWT tokens (from Authorization header)
- Returns access type (`isOwner`, `isClient`) for conditional logic

**Enforcement implemented**:
- `GET /galleries/{id}/images`: Supports both Cognito (owner) and client JWT tokens
- `GET /galleries/{id}/orders/delivered`: Supports both authentication types
- `GET /galleries/{id}/orders/{orderId}/final/images`: Supports both authentication types
- `POST /galleries/{id}/orders/{orderId}/final/zip`: Supports both authentication types
- `DELETE /galleries/{id}/photos/{filename}`: Owner-only (Cognito required)

## CI
GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/ci.yml` installs deps, runs basic scripts, and lists workspaces. Extend with tests and CDK diff/deploy as needed.

## Troubleshooting
- Missing alpha package versions: CDK HTTP API L2 is in alpha; use a version range (already configured).
- Next.js “React in scope”: pages import React or use `.jsx` to avoid TS type dependency issues before installing types.

## Documentation

- [Architecture Overview](docs/arch.md) - System architecture and components
- [User Flows](docs/user-flows.md) - Detailed user workflows and order lifecycle
- [Upload Flow](docs/upload-flow-documentation.md) - Image upload and processing flow
- [Stripe Payment Integration](docs/stripe-payment-integration.md) - Payment integration details
- [Payment Page Security](docs/payment-page-security.md) - Security implementation for payment pages
- [Authentication Architecture](docs/authentication-architecture.md) - Authentication and authorization
- [Silent OAuth Implementation](docs/silent-oauth-implementation.md) - OAuth flow details
- [Three-Tier Image Optimization](docs/three-tier-image-optimization-strategy.md) - Image optimization strategy

## Roadmap (from plan)
- Phase 1: MVP – gallery creation/payment, uploads, selection flow, final delivery, emails. ✅
- Phase 2: Previews + CloudFront, upload/download progress, mobile responsive. ✅
- Phase 3: GDPR deletion, export to Google/Apple Photos. ✅ (Archive pending)
- Phase 4: Wallet, billing, referrals. ✅ (Referrals pending)
- Phase 5: Analytics, monitoring, testing, UI polish. ⏳

---
We will keep this README updated as new features and commands land. PRs should include README updates when behavior changes.

Commit message:

Enhance environment configuration and improve gallery URL handling
- Added `PUBLIC_LANDING_URL` to the environment configuration for better URL management.
- Updated various components to utilize `getPublicLandingUrl` for consistent landing page URL retrieval.
- Refactored gallery link construction in multiple files to ensure uniformity and flexibility in URL generation.
- Improved error handling for missing configuration values in user deletion and payment processes, enhancing robustness.
- Cleaned up code across several files for better maintainability and clarity.

README.md, after:

# PhotoCloud Monorepo

PhotoCloud is a SaaS for photographers to create secure private galleries with client selection and final delivery. This monorepo contains infrastructure (AWS CDK), backend Lambdas, and frontend apps (dashboard, client gallery).

## Tech Stack
- Infra: AWS CDK v2 (TypeScript), API Gateway (HTTP API), Lambda (Node.js 20), S3, DynamoDB, Cognito
- Frontend: Next.js (dashboard, gallery)
- Logging: JSON logs via shared logger; CloudWatch logs/metrics

## Repository Layout
- `infra/` – CDK app (stacks, resources, routing)
- `backend/functions/` – Lambda handlers (payments, galleries, uploads, downloads, etc.)
- `backend/lib/` – Shared backend utilities (auth, JWT, DynamoDB, email)
- `frontend/dashboard/` – Photographer admin dashboard (Next.js)
- `frontend/gallery/` – Client gallery (Next.js)
- `packages/config/` – Shared types/config
- `packages/logger/` – Shared logger + lambda wrapper
- `packages/gallery-components/` – Shared React components for gallery views
- `scripts/smoke.mjs` – Simple synthetic health check

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 20+, Yarn Classic (1.x)
- AWS credentials configured (for deploys)

## Install
```bash
yarn install
```

## Infrastructure
Build/synth/deploy the CDK app:
```bash
cd infra
yarn build
yarn synth            # optional: preview CloudFormation
yarn deploy           # deploys the stack (uses AWS creds)
```

Context/stage:
- Default stage: `dev` (read from `--context stage=...` or `STAGE` env)

Outputs:
- Bucket name, Cognito UserPool, UserPool ClientId, and API URL are printed after deploy.

## Full AWS Setup & Deployment

### 1) AWS Account & CLI
- Install AWS CLI and configure credentials:
  ```bash
  aws configure
  # Provide Access key ID, Secret access key, region (e.g., eu-central-1), output format
  ```
- Ensure your IAM user/role has permissions to manage: CloudFormation, S3, DynamoDB, Cognito, Lambda, API Gateway, CloudWatch, IAM (for roles created by CDK).

### 2) Install Dependencies
```bash
yarn install
```

### 3) CDK Bootstrap (first time per account/region)
CDK v2 typically auto-bootstraps via deploy, but if needed:
```bash
cd infra
npx cdk bootstrap aws://<ACCOUNT_ID>/<REGION>
```

### 4) Select Stage and Region
- Default stage is `dev`. You can override with:
  - CLI context: `yarn deploy --context stage=prod`
  - Environment: `STAGE=prod yarn deploy`
- Region is taken from your AWS credentials environment (or `CDK_DEFAULT_REGION`).

### 5) Deploy
```bash
cd infra
yarn build
yarn deploy
```
- CDK will show a change set; approve to deploy.
- On success, note the outputs:
  - `BucketName`
  - `UserPoolId`
  - `UserPoolClientId`
  - `HttpApiUrl`

### 6) Verify API Is Live
- Health endpoint:
  ```bash
  API_URL=<HttpApiUrl_from_outputs>
  curl -i "$API_URL/health"
  ```
- Or use the smoke script:
  ```bash
  API_URL=$API_URL yarn smoke
  ```

### 7) Cognito Authentication (Photographer Admin)
- Create a test user in the user pool (AWS Console > Cognito > User pools > Create user).
- Alternatively via AWS CLI:
  ```bash
  # Sign-up flow if self-sign-up enabled; otherwise admin create via console is simpler for MVP
  ```
- The API routes for payments/galleries/uploads are protected by the Cognito authorizer. Use the dashboard app to authenticate (Cognito) and call these routes.

### 8) Frontend Configuration & Run
- Dashboard:
  ```bash
  cd frontend/dashboard
  NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=$API_URL \\
  NEXT_PUBLIC_DASHBOARD_URL=http://localhost:3001 \\
  NEXT_PUBLIC_GALLERY_URL=http://localhost:3000 \\
  NEXT_PUBLIC_LANDING_URL=http://localhost:3002 \\
  yarn dev
  ```
  - Open http://localhost:3000 and run the API Health Check.
- Client Gallery:
  ```bash
  cd frontend/gallery
  NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=$API_URL \\
  NEXT_PUBLIC_DASHBOARD_URL=http://localhost:3001 \\
  NEXT_PUBLIC_LANDING_URL=http://localhost:3002 \\
  yarn dev
  ```

### 9) Creating a Gallery (MVP Flow)
- For now, handlers are stubbed for payments; galleries can be created once auth flows are integrated.
- After auth integration, the dashboard will call `POST /galleries` (protected) to create an entry in DynamoDB and folder in S3.

### 10) Logs & Monitoring
- CloudWatch Logs: each Lambda has a log group under `/aws/lambda/...`.
- Check errors and invocations:
  - CloudWatch > Logs > Log groups
  - CloudWatch > Metrics (Lambda/API Gateway)

### 11) Teardown
To remove the stack:
```bash
cd infra
yarn deploy # ensure you’re deploying to the correct stage
npx cdk destroy
```
Note: Buckets with retained data may block deletion; empty S3 buckets or switch removal policy to DESTROY for development if needed.

### 12) Troubleshooting
- Missing alpha package versions: we pin CDK alpha packages with a caret range; run `yarn install` again if resolution fails.
- TypeScript path issues in Lambdas: repo uses relative imports inside Lambda handlers to avoid editor tooling issues.
- 403 on API calls: ensure you supply valid Cognito JWT when calling protected routes; health and webhook are public.
- Region mismatch: verify `aws configure get region` matches your intended region.

## Smoke Test
After deploy, run a basic health check:
```bash
API_URL=https://xxxxx.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com yarn smoke
```

## Frontend Apps
Dashboard (set API URL to enable health check UI):
```bash
cd frontend/dashboard
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://xxxxx.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com \\
NEXT_PUBLIC_DASHBOARD_URL=https://dashboard.example.com \\
NEXT_PUBLIC_GALLERY_URL=https://gallery.example.com \\
NEXT_PUBLIC_LANDING_URL=https://example.com \\
yarn dev
```

Client Gallery:
```bash
cd frontend/gallery
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://xxxxx.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com \\
NEXT_PUBLIC_DASHBOARD_URL=https://dashboard.example.com \\
NEXT_PUBLIC_LANDING_URL=https://example.com \\
yarn dev
```

## Frontend build-time config from SSM (recommended for deploy/CI)
You can export the public URLs from SSM and feed them into `next build` / `next start`:

```bash
STAGE=prod node scripts/export-public-urls-from-ssm.mjs
```

To apply them in your shell for the current process:

```bash
eval \"$(STAGE=prod node scripts/export-public-urls-from-ssm.mjs)\"
```

## Development Notes
- API security: Cognito authorizer protects admin routes; health and webhook are public.
- Lambdas currently include stub handlers for quick end-to-end verification.
- Add real logic incrementally (payments, wallet, gallery CRUD, presign, zip, selections).

### Access Control Model (important)
- **Photographers (Cognito-authenticated)**: May access only their own galleries:
  - Protected endpoints verify `ownerId === sub` and return 403 if not.
  - `ownerId` is set on gallery creation from Cognito JWT `sub`.
  - Can view galleries in "owner mode" (read-only, can delete photos).
- **Clients (password-based JWT)**: May access only the specific gallery they were invited to:
  - Client JWT tokens are scoped to a specific `galleryId` and `clientId`.
  - Can select photos, approve selections, and download final photos.
  - Token stored in localStorage for session persistence.

**Unified Authentication**: The `verifyGalleryAccess` helper supports both authentication methods:
- Checks Cognito tokens (from API Gateway authorizer or Authorization header)
- Checks client JWT tokens (from Authorization header)
- Returns access type (`isOwner`, `isClient`) for conditional logic

**Enforcement implemented**:
- `GET /galleries/{id}/images`: Supports both Cognito (owner) and client JWT tokens
- `GET /galleries/{id}/orders/delivered`: Supports both authentication types
- `GET /galleries/{id}/orders/{orderId}/final/images`: Supports both authentication types
- `POST /galleries/{id}/orders/{orderId}/final/zip`: Supports both authentication types
- `DELETE /galleries/{id}/photos/{filename}`: Owner-only (Cognito required)

## CI
GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/ci.yml` installs deps, runs basic scripts, and lists workspaces. Extend with tests and CDK diff/deploy as needed.

## Troubleshooting
- Missing alpha package versions: CDK HTTP API L2 is in alpha; use a version range (already configured).
- Next.js “React in scope”: pages import React or use `.jsx` to avoid TS type dependency issues before installing types.

## Documentation

- [Architecture Overview](docs/arch.md) - System architecture and components
- [User Flows](docs/user-flows.md) - Detailed user workflows and order lifecycle
- [Upload Flow](docs/upload-flow-documentation.md) - Image upload and processing flow
- [Stripe Payment Integration](docs/stripe-payment-integration.md) - Payment integration details
- [Payment Page Security](docs/payment-page-security.md) - Security implementation for payment pages
- [Authentication Architecture](docs/authentication-architecture.md) - Authentication and authorization
- [Silent OAuth Implementation](docs/silent-oauth-implementation.md) - OAuth flow details
- [Three-Tier Image Optimization](docs/three-tier-image-optimization-strategy.md) - Image optimization strategy

## Roadmap (from plan)
- Phase 1: MVP – gallery creation/payment, uploads, selection flow, final delivery, emails. ✅
- Phase 2: Previews + CloudFront, upload/download progress, mobile responsive. ✅
- Phase 3: GDPR deletion, export to Google/Apple Photos. ✅ (Archive pending)
- Phase 4: Wallet, billing, referrals. ✅ (Referrals pending)
- Phase 5: Analytics, monitoring, testing, UI polish. ⏳

---
We will keep this README updated as new features and commands land. PRs should include README updates when behavior changes.
